PR 1.6.1 release notes (#7400)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.6.x/announcing-1.6/announcing-1.6.1/index.md

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.6.1
linktitle: 1.6.1
subtitle: Patch Release
description: Istio 1.6.1 patch release.
publishdate: 2020-06-03
release: 1.6.1
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.6.1
---

This release contains bug fixes to improve robustness .... This release note describes
what’s different between Istio 1.6.0 and Istio 1.6.1.

{{< relnote >}}

## Changes
- **Fixed** support for Pod annotations to override mesh-wide Proxy settings

> - **Fixed** support for all Envoy filters supported in [Envoy's go-control-plane](https://github.com/envoyproxy/go-control-plane) ([Issue 23909](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23909))

Reviewer: The phrasing of this seems odd to me. It seems to say that every Envoy filter has been fixed.

Reviewer: Perhaps 
```suggestion
- **Updated** `EnvoyFilter` to register all filter types in order to support `typed_config` attributes ([Issue 23909](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23909))
```

Author: I'm going to accept your suggestion, but it still needs some re-work.

- **Fixed** handling of custom resource names for Gateways ([Issue 23303](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23303))

> - **Fixed** `istiod` fails to issue certificate to a remote cluster ([Issue 23879](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23879))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where`istiod` fails to issue certificates to a remote cluster. `Istiod` now has support for the cluster name and certificate to generate the `injectionURL`. ([Issue 23879](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23879))
```

- **Fixed** remote cluster's validation controller to check `istiod's` ready status endpoint ([Issue 23945](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23945))

> - **Fixed** `regexp` `StringMatches` so they can be compiled by `Go` and `Envoy` ([Issue 23436](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23436))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Improved** `regexp` fields validation to match Envoy's validation ([Issue 23436](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23436))
```

- **Fixed** `istioctl analyze` to validate `networking.istio.io/v1beta1` resources ([Issue 24064](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24064))
- **Fixed** typo of `istio` in `ControlZ` dashboard log ([Issue 24039](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24039))
- **Fixed** tar name to directory translation ([Issue 23635](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23635))
- **Improved** certificate management for multi-cluster and virtual machine setup from `samples/certs` directory to `install/tools/certs` directory

> - **Improved** `pilot-agent's` handling of client certificates when only a CA client certificate is present

Author: cc @deva26 Please review the phrasing of your fix. Thanks.

Reviewer 3: Thanks, LGTM.

- **Fixed** Istio Operator to respect the `--operatorNamespace` argument ([Issue 24073](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24073))
- **Fixed** Istio operator hanging when uninstalling Istio ([Issue 24038](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24038))
- **Fixed** TCP metadata exchange for upstream clusters that specify `http2_protocol_options` ([Issue 23907](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23907))
- **Added** `sideEffects` field to `MutatingWebhookConfiguration` for `istio-sidecar-injector` ([Issue 23485](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23485))
- **Improved** installation for replicated control planes ([Issue 23871](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23871))
- **Fixed** `istioctl experimental` pre-check to report compatible versions of Kubernetes (1.14-1.18) ([Issue 24132](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24132))
- **Fixed** Istio operator namespace mismatches causing a resource leak when pruning resources ([Issue 24222](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24222))
- **Fixed** SDS Agent failing to start when Proxy uses file mounted certs for Gateways ([Issue 23646](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23646))

> - **Fixed** incorrect `ServiceAccount` being used in custom `IngressGateway` Deployment ([Issue 23303](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23303))

Reviewer 4: I'd think this line can be removed as the same issue 23303 is referenced above already (as "handling of custom resource names for Gateways"). The original change did not land in any releases yet, and this specific fix is probably an implementation detail which is not too useful for public.
If it's better to over-communicate, I'd change "IngressGateway" to Gateway, as the fix was also applied to EgressGateway. (Sorry for the incorrect PR description!)

```suggestion
```

Author: Thanks for getting back to me. Removed.

- **Improved** `regexp` fields validation to match Envoy's validation ([Issue 23436](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23436))
- **Fixed** `istioctl analyze` to validate `networking.istio.io/v1beta1` resources ([Issue 24064](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24064))
- **Fixed** typo of `istio` in `ControlZ` dashboard log ([Issue 24039](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24039))
- **Fixed** tar name to directory translation ([Issue 23635](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23635))
- **Improved** certificate management for multi-cluster and virtual machine setup from `samples/certs` directory to `install/tools/certs` directory
- **Improved** `pilot-agent's` handling of client certificates when only a CA client certificate is present
- **Improved** `istiocl upgrade` to direct users to the `istio.io` website to migrate from `v1alpha1` security policies to `v1beta1` security policies
- **Fixed** release URL name for `istioctl upgrade`
- **Fixed** `k8s.overlays` for cluster resources
- **Fixed** `HTTP/HTTP2` conflict at Gateway ([Issue 24061](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24061) and [Issue 19690](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/19690))

> - **Fixed** Istio Operator to respect the `--operatorNamespace` argument ([Issue 24073](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24073))

Author: cc @kebe7jun Thoughts on phrasing?

Reviewer 5: LGTM, thanks.

- **Fixed** Istio operator hanging when uninstalling Istio ([Issue 24038](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24038))
- **Fixed** TCP metadata exchange for upstream clusters that specify `http2_protocol_options` ([Issue 23907](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23907))
- **Added** `sideEffects` field to `MutatingWebhookConfiguration` for `istio-sidecar-injector` ([Issue 23485](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23485))

> - **Improved** installation for replicated control planes ([Issue 23871](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23871))

Author: cc @sdake Tried to summarize "remove vestigae of a failed experiment". Comments are welcomed.

- **Fixed** `istioctl experimental` pre-check to report compatible versions of Kubernetes (1.14-1.18) ([Issue 24132](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24132))
- **Fixed** Istio operator namespace mismatches causing a resource leak when pruning resources ([Issue 24222](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24222))
- **Fixed** SDS Agent failing to start when Proxy uses file mounted certs for Gateways ([Issue 23646](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23646))
- **Fixed** incorrect `ServiceAccount` being used in custom `IngressGateway` Deployment ([Issue 23303](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23303))
- **Fixed** TCP over HTTP conflicts causing invalid configs ([Issue 24084](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24084))
- **Fixed** the use of external name when remote pilot address is a hostname ([Issue 24155](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24155))
- **Fixed** Istio CNI node `DaemonSet` starting when Istio CNI and `cos_containerd` are enabled on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) ([Issue 23643](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23643))

> - **Fixed** Istio CNI causing pods to experience a 30-40s delay before starting with the init container ([Issue 23770](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23770))

Author: @stewartbutler Thoughts on phrasing?

Reviewer 6: I'd rephrase as `Istio CNI causing pod intialization to experience a 30-40s delay on startup when DNS unreachable`. It wasn't the init container, it was in the CNI code.

Author: Thanks. Changed it.

- **Improved** Google Stackdriver telemetry use of UIDs with GCE VMs
- **Improved** telemetry plugins to not crash due invalid configuration ([Issue 23865](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23865))

> - **Fixed** a proxy sidecar segfault on WASM filters that made a http call to an endpoint without response body ([Issue 23890](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23890))

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** a proxy sidecar segfault on WASM filters that http call responds an empty body ([Issue 23890](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23890))
```

> - **Fixed** a proxy sidecar segfault while parsing CEL expressions ([Issue 497](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy-wasm/issues/497))

Author: @douglas-reid @mandarjog Thoughts on phrasing?
